yellow	yelo
beyond	beyond
law	lawye
pretty	prity
sign	syn
thing	thing
think	think
path	path
this	this
then	then
with	with
raps	raps
rats	rats
racks	raks
tabs	tabs
heads	heds
hogs	hogs
yellow	yelo
beyond	beyond
law	lawye
pretty	prity
record	record
tax	tax
sex	sex
fix	fix
jinx	jinx
taxes	taxes
taxing	taxing
fixer	fixer
exist	exist
exact	exakt
same	saim
weigh	way
weighing	waying
hide	hied
high	hie
deny	denie
signify	sigifi
dignify	dignifi
my	mi
by	bi
hi	hi
own	oen
bone	boen
loan	loen
kn	no
window	windo
show	sho
no	no
so	so
go	go
lo	lo
cat	cat
cream	creem
cake	caek
keep	keep
killer	kiler
lucky	luky
duck	duk
ducks	duks
physic	fiziks
queen	qeen
quick	qik
quiet	qiet
ax	ax
axes	axes
exact	exakt
axis	axsis
exserpt	exserpt
rooms	rooms
kids	kids
sister 's	sister 's
sings	sings
dwells	dwels
is	is
his	his
as	as
has	has
zoom	zoom
doze	doez
does	duz
sick	sik
mercy	mursy
pass	pas
ice	iess
since	sinss
princes	prinse
about	bout
allow	low
aroun	round
chicken	chicken
squirrel	squrel
raisin	raezin
civil	sivil
nation	naeshon
wisdom	wizdom
upon	upon
callous	calus
regard	regard
piano	peano
radio	raedio
various	vaerius
pretty	prity
prettier	prityer
p	pri
merry	merry
marry	marry
sorry	sorry
our	our
crowd	croud
brown	broun
cow	cow
cower	cower
coward	coward
oil	oil
boil	boil
foils	foils
toy	toy
toying	toying
boyish	boyish
brawn	braun
tawny	tauny
brawl	braul
law	law
laws	laws
lawful	lawful
the	th
a	a
to	to
for	for
on	on
they	thae
his	his
n't	n't
as	as
can	can
would	wuud
make	maek
there	thaer
when	when
me	me
into	into
your	yuur
than	than
then	then
more	mor
look	luuk
because	becauz
no	no
thing	thing
only	oenly
very	verry
any	eny
us	us
work	wurk
should	shuud
school	scool
too	too
state	staet
high	hie
another	anuther
out	out
while	whiel
student	stoodent
same	saem
seem	seem
where	whaer
start	start
show	sho
place	plaess
few	fue
company	cumpany
right	riet
question	qeschon
government	guvernment
off	off
night	niet
believe	beleev
happen	hapen
large	larj
home	hoem
write	riet
money	muny
month	munth
study	study
word	wurd
side	sied
far	far
little	litl
since	sinss
around	around
sit	sit
hour	our
line	lien
ever	ever
however	however
meet	meet
include	inclood
community	comuenity
once	wunss
learn	lurn
minute	minit
kid	kid
ago	ago
understand	understand
together	together
create	creaet
others	uthers
add	ad
health	helth
such	such
within	within
change	chaenj
low	loe
guy	gie
moment	moement
force	forss
education	ejucaeshon
foot	fuut
toward	tord
policy	polisy
music	muezik
actually	akchualy
wait	waet
send	send
build	bild
nation	naeshon
interest	interest
experience	expeeri'enss
kill	kil
use	uess
control	controel
else	elss
major	maejor
development	development
better	beter
decide	desied
heart	hart
light	liet
police	poleess
return	return
report	report
explain	explaen
develop	develop
town	toun
true	troo
difference	diferenss
international	internashonal
model	model
position	pozishon
record	record
special	speshal
support	suport
matter	mater
site	siet
base	baess
need	need
American	Amerrican
situation	sichuaeshon
figure	figuer
itself	itself
cover	cuver
practice	practis
describe	descrieb
patient	paeshent
movie	moovy
personal	pursonal
third	thurd
baby	baeby
draw	draw
source	sorss
choose	chooz
point	point
difficult	dificult
billion	bilyon
period	peeriod
realize	reealiez
likely	liekly
letter	leter
single	singgl
south	south
campaign	campaen
call	caul
church	church
current	curent
involve	involv
security	secuerity
west	west
per	per
rest	rest
fight	fiet
past	past
order	order
focus	foecus
blood	blud
nature	naecher
store	stor
fine	fien
page	paej
common	comon
race	raess
similar	similar
usually	uezhualy
animal	animal
shoot	shoot
artist	artist
career	career
thus	thus
exactly	exaktly
size	siez
occur	ocur
thought	thaut
quality	qolity
hard	hard
meeting	meeting
whatever	whotever
particularly	particuelarly
recognize	recogniez
loss	los
herself	herself
TV	TV
deal	deel
lay	lae
bill	bil
arrive	ariev
sex	sex
section	sekshon
skill	skil
operation	operaeshon
ok	OK
design	dezien
ten	ten
blue	bloo
clearly	cleerly
truth	trooth
check	chek
public	publik
guess	ges
prove	proov
claim	claem
help	help
network	netwurk
form	form
green	green
seat	seet
trial	trieal
firm	furm
management	manejment
tonight	toniet
close	cloez
theory	theeory
maintain	maentaen
onto	onto
employee	employee
head	hed
apply	aplie
shake	shaek
chair	chaer
structure	strukcher
weight	waet
top	top
evening	eevning
unit	uenit
worry	wury
individual	indivijual
necessary	nesesaery
shoulder	shoelder
dream	dreem
pen	pen
copy	copy
happen	hapen
back	bak
bubble	bubl
job	job
tea	tee
tight	tiet
button	buton
city	sity
better	beter
day	dae
ladder	lader
odd	od
key	kee
cock	cok
school	scool
get	get
giggle	gigl
ghost	goest
church	church
match	mach
nature	naecher
judge	juj
age	aej
soldier	soeljer
fat	fat
coffee	cofy
rough	ruf
move	moov
thing	thing
author	author
path	path
this	this
other	uther
smooth	smooth
soon	soon
cease	seess
sister	sister
zero	zeero
zone	zoen
roses	roezes
ship	ship
sure	shuur
station	staeshon
pleasure	plezher
vision	vizhon
hot	hot
whole	hoel
behind	behiend
more	mor
hammer	hamer
some	sum
nice	niess
know	noe
funny	funy
sun	sun
ring	ring
long	long
thanks	thanks
sung	sung
light	liet
valley	valy
feel	feel
yet	yet
use	uez
use	uess
beauty	buety
wet	wet
one	wun
when	when
queen	qeen
dress	dres
bed	bed
lot	lot
odd	od
wash	wosh
strut	strut
bud	bud
love	luv
foot	fuut
good	guud
put	puut
fleece	fleess
day	dae
streak	streek
price	priess
high	hie
try	tri
choice	chois
boy	boy
goose	gooss
two	too
blue	bloo
goat	goet
show	sho
no	no
cold	coeld
mouth	mouth
now	now
near	neer
here	heer
serious	seerius
square	sqaer
fair	faer
various	vaerius
start	start
father	faather
thought	thaut
law	law
north	north
war	wor
cure	cuer
poor	puur
jury	juury
nurse	nurss
stir	stur
courage	curej
happy	hapy
radiation	raediaeshon
glorious	glorius
about	about
comma	coma
common	comon
Bakunin	Bakunin
Colin	Colin
Ferrer	Ferer
Francisco	Francisco
Godwin	Godwin
Goodman	Goodman
Hearbert	Hearbert
In	in
Inceptive	inseptiv
Joseph	Joseph
Leo	Leo
Max	Max
Pierre	Pierre
Proudhon	Proudhon
Stirner	Stirner
Ward	Ward
Willian	Willian
ability	ability
according	akording
achieved	acheevd
action	akshon
advocating	advokaeting
aim	aem
also	also
an	an
anarchy	anarky
anti	anti
appears	apeers
are	ar
arrested	arested
artists	artists
as	as
attracted	atraekted
bank	bank
basic	baesik
be	be
became	bekaem
beginning	begining
black	blak
bodies	bodys
body	body
branch	branch
broadly	braudly
by	bi
capitalism	capitalizm
catalan	catalan
catholic	cathlik
cause	cauz
century	senchury
class	clas
combining	combiening
compulsory	compulsory
concepts	consepts
controlled	controeld
councils	counsils
countries	cuntrys
coverage	cuverej
currency	curensy
decades	dikaeds
descriptive	discriptiv
developed	divelopt
dictatorship	diktaetorship
distanced	distenst
diverge	dieverj
dropping	droping
during	duering
economic	economik
educate	ejucaet
effective	efektiv
english	english
established	establisht
establishment	establishment
etymology	etimolojy
external	external
faced	faest
factions	fakshons
federation	federaeshon
feminist	feminist
followed	foloed
formed	formd
from	from
fusion	fuezhon
generation	jeneraeshon
got	got
greek	greek
hand	hand
have	hav
himself	himself
identity	iedentity
ideologically	iedeolojikaly
inconsistent	inconsistent
individual	indivijual
institutions	institushons
involuntary	involantaery
kept	kept
kinds	kiends
latest	laetist
leading	leeding
left	left
legs	legs
lived	livd
management	manejment
marginalized	marjinaliezd
marxist	marxist
means	meens
merely	meerly
microscope	miecroescoep
modern	modern
mostly	moestly
mutual	muechual
news	nuez
non	non
non	non
not	not
of	of
or	or
organised	organiezd
origin	orijin
overlap	oeverlap
part	part
philosophies	filosaufys
philosophy	filosaufy
plenty	plenty
prefigure	preefigur
prehistory	preehistory
production	produkshon
publicity	publisity
radical	radikal
radicalism	radikalizm
reciprocity	resiprosity
reclamation	reclameashon
referred	referd
reform	reform
regulated	reguelaeted
reinforced	reinforsst
rejected	rejekted
relying	relieying
replacing	replaessing
respect	respekt
retrospectively	retrospektivly
schooling	scooling
second	second
see	see
self	self
separated	sepreited
setting	seting
several	several
situated	sichuaeted
societies	sosietys
solidarity	solidarity
specific	spesifik
struggles	strugls
suggesting	sujesting
tenets	tenets
than	than
their	thear
theoretical	theeoretikal
theory	theeory
they	thae
thinker	thinker
thinkers	thinkers
third	thurd
through	throo
time	tiem
types	tieps
various	vaerius
views	vuez
violent	vielent
voluntary	volantaery
was	was
well	wel
while	whiel
will	wil
within	within
worked	wurkd
working	wurking
world	wurld
would	wuud
writers	rieters
young	yung
Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth , on this continent , a new nation , conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal .	Foerscor and seven yeers ago our faathers braut forth , on this continent , a nue naeshon , conseevd in liberty and dedicaeted to th propozishon that all men ar creaeted eeqal .
Now we are engaged in a great civil war , testing whether that nation , or any nation so conceived , and so dedicated , can long endure .	Now we ar engaejd in a graet sivil wor , testing whether that naeshon , or eny naeshon so conseevd , and so dedicaeted , can long enduur .
We are met on a great battle - field in that war .	We ar met on a graet batl - feeld in that wor .
We have come to dedicate a portion of that field , as a final resting - place for those who here gave their lives , that that nation might live .	We hav cum to dedicaet a porshon of that feeld , as a fienal resting - plaess for thoes hoo heer gaev thaer lievs , that that naeshon miet liv .
It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this , but in a larger sense we can not dedicate , we can not consecrate , we can not hallow this ground .	It is aultogether fiting and proper that we shuud do this , but in a larjer senss we can not dedicaet , we can not consecraet , we can not halo this ground .
The brave men , living and dead , who struggled here , have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract .	Th braev men , living and ded , hoo strugld heer , hav consecraeted it far abuv our puur power to ad or detrakt .
The world will little note , nor long remember , what we say here , but it can never forget what they did here .	Th wurld wil litl noet , nor long remember , whot we say heer , but it can never forget whot thae did heer .
It is for us the living , rather , to be dedicated to the great task remaining before us that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion — that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain , that this nation , under God , shall have a new birth of freedom , and that government of the people , by the people , for the people , shall not perish from the earth .	It is for us th living , rather , to be dedicaeted to th graet task remaening befor us that from thees onord ded we taek increest devoeshon to that cauz for which thay gaev th last fuul mezher of devoeshon - that we heer hiely rezolv that thees ded shal not hav died in vaen , that this naeshon , under God , shal hav a nue burth of freedom , and that guvernment of th peepl , bi th peepl , for th peepl , shal not perrish frum th urth .
Once upon a time there were four little Rabbits , and their names were Flopsy , Mopsy , Cotton - tail , and Peter .	Wunss upon a tiem thaer wer foer litl Rabits , and thaer naems wer Flopsy , Mopsy , Coton - tael , and Peeter .
They lived with their Mother in a sand - bank , underneath the root of a very big fir - tree .	Thae livd with thaer Muther in a sand - bank , underneeth th root of a verry big fur - tree .
' Now , my dears , ' said old Mrs. Rabbit one morning , ' you may go into the ﬁelds or down the lane , but do n't go into Mr. McGregor 's garden : your Father had an accident there ; he was put in a pie by Mrs. McGregor . '	' Now , mi deers , ' sed oeld Mss. Rabit wun morning , ' you mae go into th feelds or doun th laen , but doe n't go into Mr. MkGregor 's garden : Yuur Faather had an aksident thaer ; he was puut in a pie bi Mss. MkGregor . '
' Now run along , and do n't get into mischief .	' Now run along , and doe n't get into mischif .
I am going out . '	I am going out . '
Then old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella , and went through the wood to the baker 's .	Then oeld Mss. Rabit tuuk a basket and her umbrela , and went thru th wuud to th baeker 's .
She bought a loaf of brown bread and five currant buns .	She baut a loef of broun bred and fiev curant buns .
Flopsy , Mopsy , and Cotton - tail , who were good little bunnies , went down the lane to gather blackberries .	Flopsy , Mopsy , and Coton - tael , hoo wer guud litl bunys , went doun th laen to gather blakberrys .
But Peter , who was very naughty , ran straight away to Mr. McGregor 's garden , and squeezed under the gate !	But Peeter , hoo was verry nauty , ran straet awae to Mr. MkGregor 's garden , and sqeezd under th gaet !
First he ate some lettuces and some French beans ; and then he ate some radishes ; And then , feeling rather sick , he went to look for some parsley .	Furst he aet sum letises and sum French beens ; and then he aet sum radishes ; and then , feeling rather sik , he went to luuk for sum parsly .
But round the end of a cucumber frame , whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor !	But round th end of a cuecumber fraem , hoom shuud he meet but Mr. MkGregor !
Mr. McGregor was on his hands and knees planting out young cabbages , but he jumped up and ran after Peter , waving a rake and calling out , ' Stop thief ! '	Mr. MkGregor was on his hands and nees planting out yung cabejes , but he jumpt up and ran after Peeter , waeving a raek and cauling out , ' Stop theef ! '
Peter was most dreadfully frightened ; he rushed all over the garden , for he had forgotten the way back to the gate .	Peeter was moest dredfuly frietend ; he rusht all oever th garden , for he had forgoten th wae bak to th gaet .
He lost one of his shoes among the cabbages , and the other shoe amongst the potatoes .	He lost wun of his shoos amung th cabejes , and th uther shoo amungst th potaetoes .
After losing them , he ran on four legs and went faster , so that I think he might have got away altogether if he had not unfortunately run into a gooseberry net , and got caught by the large buttons on his jacket .	After loozing them , he ran on foer legs and went faster , so that I think he miet hav got awae aultogether if he had not unforchunatly run into a goosberry net , and got caut bi th larj butons on his jaket .
It was a blue jacket with brass buttons , quite new .	It was a bloo jaket with bras butons , qiet nue .
Let us go then , you and I ,	Let us go then , U and I ,
When the evening is spread out against the sky	When th eevning is spred out agenst th ski
Like a patient etherized upon a table ;	Liek a paeshent eetheriezd upon a taebl ;
Let us go , through certain half - deserted   streets ,	Let us go , thru surten haf - dezurted streets ,
The muttering retreats	Th mutering retreets
Of restless nights in one - night cheap hotels	Of restles niets in wun - niet cheep hoetels
And sawdust restaurants with oyster - shells :	And sawdust resteraants with oister - shels :
Streets that follow like a tedious argument	Streets that folo liek a teedius arguement
Of insidious intent	Of insidius intent
To lead you to an overwhelming question ...	To leed U to an oeverwhelming qeschon ...
Oh , do not ask , " What is it ? "	O , do not ask , " Whot is it ? "
Let us go and make our visit .	Let us go and maek our vizit .
In the room the women come and go	In th room th wimen cum and go
Talking of Michelangelo .	Tauking of Mikelanjelo .
The yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window - panes ,	Th yelo fog that rubs its bak upon th windo - paens ,
The yellow smoke that rubs its muzzle on the window - panes ,	Th yelo smoek that rubs its muzl on th windo - paens ,
Licked its tongue into the corners of the evening ,	Likt its tung into th corners of th eevning ,
Lingered upon the pools that stand in drains ,	Linggerd upon th pools that stand in draens ,
Let fall upon its back the soot that falls from chimneys ,	Let faul upon its bak th suut that fauls from chimnys ,
Slipped by the terrace , made a sudden leap ,	Slipt bi th terris , maed a suden leep ,
And seeing that it was a soft October night ,	And seeing that it wuz a soft Oktoeber niet ,
Curled once about the house , and fell asleep .	Curld wunss about th hous , and fel asleep .
And indeed there will be time	And indeed thaer wil be tiem
For the yellow smoke that slides along the street ,	For th yelo smoek that slieds along th street ,
Rubbing its back upon the window - panes ;	Rubing its bak upon th windo - paens ;
There will be time , there will be time	Thaer wil be tiem , thaer wil be tiem
To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet ;	To prepaer a faess to meet th faeses that U meet ;
There will be time to murder and create ,	Thaer wil be tiem to murder and creaet ,
And time for all the works and days of hands	And tiem for all th wurks and daes of hands
That lift and drop a question on your plate ;	That lift and drop a qeschon on yuur plaet ;
Time for you and time for me ,	Tiem for U and tiem for me ,
And time yet for a hundred indecisions ,	And tiem yet for a hundred indesizhons ,
And for a hundred visions and revisions ,	And for a hundred vizhons and revizhons ,
Before the taking of a toast and tea .	Befor th taeking of a toest and tee .
NOODLE SOUP	NOODL SOOP
2 quarts Chicken Consommé .	2 qorts Chiken Consomae .
1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley .	1 teespoon fienly chopt parsly .
1 recipe noodles cut very fine ( see below ) .	1 resipy noodls cut verry fien ( see beloe ) .
PROCESS :	PROSESS :
Cook fowl same as for Boiled Fowl ( do not tie in cheese cloth ) .	Cuuk foul saem as for Boild Foul ( do not tie in cheez cloth ) .
Drain fowl from stock , and strain .	Draen foul from stok , and straen .
When cold , remove fat , and clear .	When coeld , remoov fat , and cleer .
Reheat , add noodles , and simmer twenty minutes .	Reheet , ad noodls , and simer twenty minits .
Sprinkle with parsley and serve very hot .	Sprinkl with parsly and surv verry hot .
NOODLES	NOODLS
1 egg .	1 eg .
1/2 teaspoon salt .	1/2 teespoon sault .
Flour .	Flour .
Few grains nutmeg .	Fue graens nutmeg .
PROCESS :	PROSESS :
Beat egg slightly , add seasonings , add flour enough to make a stiff dough .	Beet eg slietly , ad seezonings , ad flour enuf to maek a stif doe .
Knead on a floured board until smooth and elastic .	Need on a flourd bord until smooth and elastik .
Roll out on a sheet as thin as paper , cover and let stand for half an hour .	Roel out on a sheet as thin as paeper , cuver and let stand for haf an our .
Roll loosely and cut the desired width , either in threads or ribbons , unroll and scatter over board ; let lay half an hour .	Roel loosly and cut th dezierd width , eether in threds or ribons , unroel and scater oever bord ; let lae haf an our .
Cook in boiling , salted water fifteen minutes , drain and add to soup .	Cuuk in boiling , saulted wauter fifteen minits , draen and ad to soop .
Noodles may be cooked in Consommé twenty minutes but the soup will not be as clear as when noodles are cooked previously .	Noodls mae be cuukt in Consomae twenty minits but th soop wil not be as cleer as when noodls ar cuukt preeviusly .
BOILED BEEF	BOILD BEEF
Have five pounds of beef , cut from the face of the rump .	Hav fiev pounds of beef , cut from th faess of th rump .
Wipe meat , sprinkle with salt , pepper , and dredge with flour .	Wiep meet , sprinkl with sault , peper , and drej with flour .
Brown richly in an iron skillet in some of its own fat tried out , turning often .	Broun richly in an ieern skilet in sum of its oen fat tried out , turning ofen .
Remove to kettle and cover with boiling water .	Remoov to ketl and cuver with boiling wauter .
Add one tablespoon salt , one - half teaspoon peppercorns , a bit of bay leaf , one carrot sliced , one turnip sliced , and one - half onion sliced .	Ad wun taeblspoon sault , wun - haf teespoon pepercorns , a bit of bae leef , wun carrot sliest , wun turnip sliest , and wun - haf unyon sliest .
Add two sprays each of parsley and thyme and one of marjoram .	Ad too spraes eech of parsly and tiem and wun of marjoram .
Cover and heat to boiling point .	Cuver and heet to boiling point .
Skim when necessary .	Skim when nesesaery .
Reduce heat and simmer until meat is tender ( four or five hours ) .	Reduess heet and simer until meet is tender ( foer or fiev ours ) .
Remove to serving platter .	Remoov to surving plater .
Strain stock and use for soup or sauces .	Straen stok and uez for soop or sauses .
Serve meat with hot Horseradish Sauce .	Surv meet with hot Horsradish Saus .
( For recipe see page 51 . )	( For resipy see paej 51 . )
All anarchist schools were based mostly on a moral value , namely respecting children's right to develop freely without manipulations .	All anarkist skools wer baest moestly on a moral value , naemly respekting children's riet to develop freely without manipulaeshon .
Anarchism and education .	Anarkizm and ejucaeshon .
Anarchism appears in English from 1642 as " anarchisme " and " anarchy " from 1539 .	Anarkizm apeers in english from 1642 as " anarkizm " and " anarky " from 1539 .
Anarchism is a political philosophy and movement that rejects all involuntary , coercive forms of hierarchy .	Anarkizm is a politikal filesaufy and moovment that rejekts all involuntary , coersiv forms of hierarky .
Anarchist and non - anarchist feminists differed on suffrage , but still they were supportive of each other .	Anarkist and non - anarkist feminists diferd on sufraj , but stil thae wer suportiv of eech uther .
Anarchist's interest to education stretches back to the first steps of classical anarchism .	Anarkist's interest to ejucaeshon streches bak to th furst steps of clasikal anarkizm .
Anarcho - communism , also known as anarchist - communism , communist anarchism and libertarian communism , is a theory of anarchism that advocates a communist society with common ownership of the means of production , direct democracy , and a horizontal network of voluntary associations and workers ' councils with production and consumption based on the guiding principle : " From each according to his ability , to each according to his need " .	Anarko - comuenizm , also noen as anarkist - comuenizm , comuenist anarkizm and libertarian comuenizm , is a theeory of anarkizm that advokaets a comuenist sosiety with comon ounership of th meens of produkshon , direkt dimocrasy , and a horizontal netwurk of voluntary asoesiaeshons and wurkers ‘ counsils with produkshon and consumpshon baest on th gieding prinsipl : " from eech akording to his ability , to eech akording to his need " .
Anarcho - syndicalism , also referred to as revolutionary syndicalism , is a branch of anarchism that views labour syndicates as a potential force for revolutionary social change , replacing capitalism and the state with a new society democratically self - managed by workers .	Anarko - sindikalizm , also referd to as revolushonaery sindikalizm , is a branch of anarkizm that vues leibur syndicaet as a potenshal forss for revolushonaery soeshal chaenj , replaessing capitalizm and th staet with a nue sosiety dimocratikaly self - manejd bi wurkers .
Christian anarchist Leo Tolstoy had also established a school , it ' s major principle was " for education to be effective it had to be free " , as Tolstoy himself explained .	Chrischan anarkist Leo Tolstoy had also establisht a scool , it ‘ s maejor prinsipl was " for ejucaeshon to be efektiv it had to be free " , as Tolstoy himself explaend .
Collectivist anarchism , also known as anarchist collectivism or anarcho - collectivism , is a revolutionary socialist form of anarchism commonly associated with Mikhail Bakunin .	Colektivist anarkizm , also noen as anarkist colektivizm or anarko - colektivizm , is a revolushonaery soeshalist form of anarkizm comonly asoesiaeted with Mikhail Bakunin .
Collectivist anarchists advocate collective ownership of the means of production , theorised to be achieved through violent revolution , and that workers be paid according to time worked , rather than goods being distributed according to need as in communism .	Colektivist anarkists advokaet colektiv ounership of th meens of produkshon , theeoriezd to be acheevd thru vielen revolooshon , and that wurkers be peid akording to taim wurkd , rather than goods being distribueted akording to need as in comuenizm .
Criticism of anarchism mainly focuses on it being internally inconsistent , violent and utopian .	Critisizm of anarkizm maenly foecuses on it being internaly inconsistent , vielen and utopian .
During the second half of the 20th century , anarchism intermingled with the second wave of anarchism , radicalizing some currents of the feminist movement - and got influenced as well .	Duering th sekond haf of th 20th senchury , anarkizm intermingled with th sekond waev of anarkizm , radicalaezing sum curents of th feminist moovment - and got influenst as wel .
Etymology , terminology and definition .	Etimolojy , terminolojy and definishon .
Evolutionary tactics aim to prefigure what an anarchist society would be like .	Evolooshonaery taktiks aem to preefigur whot an anarkist sosiety wuud be liek .
However , some anarchists distanced themselves from this line of thinking , suggesting it is leaning towards individualism and therefore dropping the cause of social liberation .	However , sum anarkists distenst themselv from this lien of thinking , sujesting it is leening tords indivijualizm and therfor droping th cauz of soeshal liberaeshon .
However , they faced the dilemma of whether they should guide youngsters towards political and class struggles .	However , thae faest th dilema of whether thae shuud gied yungsters tords politikal and clas strugls .
In the last decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century , the anarchist movement has been resurgent once more .	In th last dikaeds of th 20th senchury and into th 21st senchury , th anarkist moovment has been reserjent wunss mor .
Inceptive currents among classical anarchist currents were mutualism and individualism .	Inseptiv curents amung clasikal anarkist curents wer mutualizm and indivijualizm .
Many revolutionaries of the 19th century such as William Godwin ( 1756 – 1836 ) and Wilhelm Weitling ( 1808 – 1871 ) would contribute to the anarchist doctrines of the next generation , but they did not use " anarchist " or " anarchism " in describing themselves or their beliefs .	Meny revolooshonaerys of th 19th senchury such as William Godwin ( 1756 - 1836 ) and Wilhelm Weitling ( 1808 - 1871 ) wuud contribuet to th anarkist doktrins of th next jeneraeshon , but thae did not uess " anarkist " or " anarkizm " in descriebing themselv or thaer beliefs .
Mutualism is an 18th - century economic theory that was developed into anarchist theory by Pierre - Joseph Proudhon .	Mutualizm is an 18th - senchury economik theeory that was divelopt into anarkist theeory bi Piere - Joseph Proudhon .
Objection to the state and its institutions is " sine qua non " of anarchism .	Obshekshon to th staet and its institueshons is " sine qua non " of anarkizm .
On the other hand , some use " libertarianism " to refer to individualistic free - market philosophy only , referring to free - market anarchism as " libertarian anarchism " .	On th uther hand , sum uess " libertarianism " to refer to indivijualistic free - market filesaufy oenly , refering to free - market anarkizm as " libertarian anarkizm " .
Post - classical and contemporary .	Post - clasikal and contemporary .
Some decades later , anarchist authors such Colin Ward , Hearbert Read and Paul Goodman intensified and expanded anarchist's critique to state education , even the need for schooling as a pedagogical method , suggesting a system that would focus on children's creativity rather than turning them into career - hunters .	Sum dikaeds laeter , anarkist authors such Colin Ward , Hearbert Read and Paul Goodman intensify and expanded anarkist's criteek to staet ejucaeshon , eevn th need for skooling as a pedagojikal method , sujesting a sistem that wuud foecus on children's creaetivity rather than turning them into career - hunters .
The first political philosopher to call himself an " anarchist " ( ) was Pierre - Joseph Proudhon ( 1809 – 1865 ) , marking the formal birth of anarchism in the mid - 19th century .	Th furst politikal filesaufer to caul himself an " anarkist " ( ) was Piere - Josef Proudhon ( 1809 - 1865 ) , marking th formal barth of anarkizm in th mid - 19th senchury .
The school closed after constant harassment by the state and Ferrer was later on arrested .	Th scool cloezd after constant harasment bi th staet and Ferer was laeter on arested .
The timeline of anarchism stretches back to prehistory when people lived in anarchistic societies long before the establishment of formal states , kingdoms or empires .	Th tiemlien of anarkizm streches bak to prehistory when peepl livd in anarkistik sosietis long before th establishment of formal staets , kingdoms  or empiers .
There is significant overlap between the two legs which are merely descriptive .	Thaer is signifikant oeverlap bitween th too legs which ar meerly discriptiv .
They were followed by the major currents of social anarchism ( collectivist , communist and syndicalist ) .	Thae wer foloed bi th maejor curents of soeshal anarkizm ( colektivist , comuenist and sindikalist ) .
Through many countries , individualist anarchism attracted a small yet diverse following of Bohemian artists and intellectuals as well as young anarchist outlaws in what became known as illegalism and individual reclamation .	Thru meny cuntrys , indivijualist anarkizm atraekted a smaul yet dievers foloeing of boeheemean artists and intelekchual as wel as yung anarkist outlaws in whot bekaem noen as ileegalizm and indivijual reclameashon .
Various branches of anarchism were espoused during those times .	Vaerius branches of anarkizm wer espouzd duering thoes tiems .
With the third wave of anarchism , sexual identity and compulsory heterosexuality were put under the anarchist's microscope and yielded a post - structuralist critique of sexual normality .	With th thurd waev of anarkizm , seksual iedentity and compulsory heterosekshuality wer puut under th anarkist's mikroscop and yilded a post - structuralist criteek of seksual normality .
With the rise of organised hierarchical bodies , skepticism towards authority also rose , but it was not until the 19th century a self - conscious political movement was formed .	With th riez of organiezd hierarkikal bodys , skeptisizm tords authority also roez , but it was not until th 19th senchury a self - conshous politikal moovment was formd .
Most anarchist educators of early 20th century did not take a neutral stance ; the specific question kept troubling anarchist the decades to come .	Moest anarkist ejucaetors of erly 20th senchury did not taek a nutral stanss ; th spasifik qeschon kept truubling anarkist th dikaeds to cum .
Mutualism has been retrospectively characterised as ideologically situated between individualist and collectivist forms of anarchism .	Mutualizm has been retrospektivly charakteriezd as iedeolojikaly sichuaeted bitween indivijualist and colektivist forms of anarkizm .